[EN/ZH] Add `Yuyuko's Hidden Cup Season 3` and Update `tournaments` (#9963)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/YHC/3/en.md

---
tags:
  - YHC S3
  - YHC
---

# Yuyuko's Hidden Cup Season 3

![YHC S3 banner](img/banner.jpg)

The **Yuyuko's Hidden Cup Season 3** (***YHC S3***) was a team-based 4v4 double-elimination osu! tournament hosted by ::{ flag=CN }:: [SIyuyuko](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9794030). It was the 3rd instalment of the Yuyuko's Hidden Cup.

## Tournament schedule

| Event | Timestamp |
| --: | :-- |
| Registration phase | 2023-06-01/2023-06-15 |
| Drawings | 2023-06-16 (20:00 UTC+08) |
| Elimination stage 1 | 2023-06-16/2023-06-25 |
| Elimination stage 2 | 2023-06-26/2023-07-09 |
| Elimination stage 3 | 2023-07-10/2023-07-29 |

## Prizes

| Placing | Prize(s) |
| :-: | :-- |
| ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-gold.png "1st place") | USD 4.8 per player, an unofficial badge |

> | ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-silver.png "2nd place") | USD 3.4 per player |
> | ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-bronze.png "3rd place") | USD 2 per player |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ![Silver crown](/wiki/shared/crown-silver.png "2nd place") | USD 3.4 per player |
| ![Bronze crown](/wiki/shared/crown-bronze.png "3rd place") | USD 2 per player |
```

Reviewer: btw same issue is in the translation

Author: fix it soon

> | *the MVP of the tournament* | 1 month of osu!supporter |

Reviewer: think it's better to expand an acronym on its first occurrence for clarity
```suggestion
| *the most valuable person of the tournament (MVP)* | 1 month of osu!supporter |
```

> | *the Coach of winner team* | 1 month of osu!supporter |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| *the coach of winner team* | 1 month of osu!supporter |
```

| 天使纷扰 ::{ flag=CN }:: | -1 | **0** | ::{ flag=CN }:: **鲭西何时无缘进路** | *win by default* |

### Elimination stage 1

| Team 1 |  |  | Team 2 | Match link |
| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- | :-- |
| **遇到HD睡大觉** ::{ flag=CN}:: | **5** | 0 | ::{ flag=CN }:: null | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109161042) |
| **我倒杯水** ::{ flag=CN }:: | **5** | 1 | ::{ flag=CN }:: 笔不飞 不会打 | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109142623) |
| 孤儿收容所 ::{ flag=CN }:: | 4 | **5** | ::{ flag=CN }:: **鲭西何时无缘进路** | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109163592) |
| 6A级景点 ::{ flag=CN }:: | 1 | **5** | ::{ flag=CN }:: **天使纷扰** | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109144755) |

## Ruleset

### General

1. The Yuyuko's Hidden Cup Season 3 is a entertainment-oriented double elimination 4v4 team tournament, played on the osu! game mode.
2. Beatmap scoring is based on ScoreV2.
3. Based on the number of registration, **the size for a team is 7 players**.
4. The beatmap list for each next round will be announced by the mappool selectors on the official live stream, on the weekend (Friday 12:00 - Monday 23:00) after the matches take place.

> 5. The default match schedules for each round will be announced by the tournament managers in the information (main) sheet, on Sunday before the last matches take place. the captain could have a discussion with the opponent and confirm the match time, before Saturday 00:00 in the week.

Reviewer: (if I caught your intention correctly)
```suggestion
5. The default match schedules for each round will be announced by the tournament managers in the information (main) sheet, on Sunday before the last matches take place. The captain may have a discussion with the opponent and confirm the match time before Saturday 00:00 on the same week.
```

> 6. Use of the Visual Settings to alter background dim or disable beatmap elements like storyboards and skins are allowed.

Reviewer: alternatively, simply Visual Settings
```suggestion
6. Use of the Visual Settings panel to alter background dim or disable beatmap elements like storyboards and skins is allowed.
```

   - Custom skin elements must not be used to alter core gameplay elements or mechanics in unintended ways.
7. If less than the minimum amount of required players are present at match time, the match can be postponed for up to 10 minutes. If after this period there are still not enough players for either team, a win by default will be declared for the side with the most members present.
   - The minimum amount of required players is the amount of players needed to play a beatmap without any vacant spots in the lobby (i.e. 4 participants must be present for the match to begin). 

> 8. Exchanging players between games is allowed without limitations.

Reviewer: "exchanging" makes it sound like the teams exchange between themselves (at least to me)
```suggestion
8. Replacing players between games is allowed without limitations.
```

9. If a game ends in a draw, it will be nullified and the beatmap will be replayed.
10. Teams may ask for a rematch if a team member encounters technical issues while playing within 30 seconds or 25% of the beatmap drain length (whichever happens first) of the game's start. Referees may, at their discretion, veto this request.
    - "Lag spikes" are not considered a valid reason to rematch a beatmap.
    - The roster for each team during a rematch must remain the same as the original run. If that is not possible, e.g. by virtue of a technical issue that prevents a player from entering the lobby, both teams will be allowed to swap rosters.
    - This rule is not to be abused. Referees may veto a rematch request if they find that this is the case.
11. If a player disconnects mid-game, their scores will not be counted towards their team's total, unless adequate proof of said score is provided. The following are considered as acceptable proof:

>     - Player point-of-view live stream snippets (commonly referred to as "clips" or "VODs"). The entirety of the play, along with the results screen must be clearly visible along with the affected player's score.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Player point-of-view live stream snippets (commonly referred to as "clips" or "VODs"). The entirety of the play, along with the results screen, must be clearly visible along with the affected player's score.
```

      - All screenshots **MUST** be taken using the game itself (using `Shift` + `F12`), that is, they must be hosted on the `https://osu.ppy.sh/` domain. Any other form of screenshot will be denied.
    - Player scores may be derived from the official stream as a last resort, in cases where the match is streamed.
12. Players are expected to keep the match running fluently and without delays. Excessive match delays from the players' side may result in penalties being applied by the tournament managers. Disrupting the match by foul play, insulting or provoking other players or staff, delaying the match, or other deliberate inappropriate misbehaviour are strictly prohibited, and will be punished accordingly.
13. All players and staff must be treated with respect. Instructions from the referees and the tournament managers are to be followed. Decisions labelled as final are not to be objected.

> 14. The multiplayer chatrooms underlie the [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules). All chat rules apply to the multiplayer chatrooms where the matches will take place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. The multiplayer chatrooms abide by the [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules). All chat rules apply to the multiplayer chatrooms where the matches will take place.
```

>     - Breaking the chat rules may result in a silence. Silenced players cannot participate in multiplayer matches and must be exchanged for the duration of the punishment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Breaking the chat rules may result in a silence. Silenced players cannot participate in multiplayer matches and must be replaced for the duration of the punishment.
```

    - Disqualification from the current and future official tournaments, until appealed.
16. Referees may allow, at their discretion, lower or higher tolerances for timers.
17. The tournament managers may request liveplays or recordings of individual players or teams at any point in the tournament without prior warning.
18. The tournament managers reserve the right to modify these rules at any moment. Any such changes will be announced in advance.

### Tournament registration

1. A player who meets the registration conditions can register through the [Registration Form](https://docs.qq.com/form/page/DUnpIQmF2ZXRvcm9P). Registration will close on 2023-06-16.
2. Registration Conditions:
   - pp limitation: 2000pp - 4500pp
3. If a player registered successfully, a **cost** will be calculated and will affect the team-up stage.

### Team-up information

1. Each team will have 7 players (including the captain).
2. The sum of player cost should be 6.7 - 7.3 (including boundary values).
3. Please try to keep the cost within a reasonable threshold. If out of limit, staff will take action.
4. If a team formed successfully, the captain could send the team name and team flag to the staff.

>    - The team flag and team name should comply with [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules). sexualized, trolling, insulting, derogatory, personal, and political attack team name or team flag is not allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The team flag and team name should comply with [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules). Sexualized, trolling, insulting, derogatory, personally and/or politically offensive team names and flags are not allowed.
```

   - The room settings are `Game mode: "osu!"`, `Team mode: "Team Vs"` and `Score mode: "ScoreV2"`. The room name must follow the pattern of `YHCS3: ({Red Team}) VS ({Blue Team})`. The team mentioned first in the room name must be the red team, the team mentioned second in the room name must be the blue team.
2. Each team may ban **one beatmap** to be selected from the pool In all stages of the tournament. These beatmaps may not be picked by any team for the entire duration of the match.
3. Each captain must use `!roll` once in the match's chatroom.
   - The winner of the `!roll`, the team captain would decide if their team **picks** first or **bans** first.
   - Teams may "double pick" (i.e. pick two or more maps from the same mod pool in sequence) without limitations.
   - The loser of the `!roll` 's ban/pick depends on the winner of the `!roll`.
4. After bans are decided, both teams will take turns in picking a beatmap from the mappool.
5. Teams will be allowed 2 minutes to pick a beatmap and 2 minutes to press the `Ready` button on their client. If a team takes more time than alloted for either action, the procedures adopted will be as follows:
   - For the first occurrence:

>      - The team will receive a verbal warning from the referee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The team will receive a verbal warning from the referee.
```

7. The tiebreaker will be played under FreeMod conditions, but the mod requirement is not enforced.

### Scheduling information

1. Each stage will be held on **a single or double weekend**.
2. All bracket stages will be held between Wednesday 00:00 and Sunday 22:00 UTC+8.
3. Match scheduling will be handled by the tournament managers. Schedules will be released on the Sunday after the last matches of the stage. The tournament managers will try to create the schedule to respect the participants' time zones and time favors.
   - In addition, team captains may inform tournament managers if they expect a specific time slot to be unavailable in the following week.
4. **Reschedules will only be considered if both teams agree to a time and communicate it to the tournament managers, before Friday 23:59 UTC+8 of the week the match is to take place on.**
   - Matches may not be scheduled to any time beyond **Sunday, 22:00 UTC+8** of the week they are to be played at.
   - **Do not ask for a reschedule unless it is absolutely needed. The tournament managers reserve the right to deny any rescheduling request.**
   - Late reschedule requests will not be accepted under any circumstances.

> 5. Captains and Coaches are responsible for their team's availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Captains and coaches are responsible for their team's availability.
```
